OSDOCS-8728: Reviewed the Entra ID as Identity Provider tutorial. (#68025)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-entra-id-idp.adoc

//Mobb content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 2023-09-18
// ---
// date: '2022-09-23'
// title: Configure Azure AD as an OIDC identity provider for ROSA/OSD
// tags: ["Azure", "ROSA", "OSD"]
// authors:
//   - Michael McNeill
//   - Andrea Bozzoni
//   - Steve Mirman
//   - Thatcher Hubbard
// ---

You can configure Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory) as the cluster identity provider in {product-title} (ROSA).

This tutorial guides you to:

. Register a new application in Entra ID for authentication.
. Configure the application registration in Entra ID to include optional and group claims in tokens.
. Configure the OpenShift cluster to use Entra ID as the identity provider.
. Grant additional permissions to individual groups.

.Prerequisites

> * You created a set of security groups and assign users by following link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups[the Microsoft documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You created a set of security groups and assigned users by following link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups[the Microsoft documentation].
```

[id="cloud-experts-entra-id-idp-register-application"]

> == Register a new application in Entra ID for authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Registering a new application in Entra ID for authentication
```

> To register your application in Entra ID, you first need to create the OAuth callback URL, and then, you can register your application.

Reviewer 2: How about below
```suggestion
To register your application in Entra ID, first create the OAuth callback URL, and then proceed to register your application.
```

> To register your application in Entra ID, you first need to create the OAuth callback URL, and then, you can register your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register your application in Entra ID, first create the OAuth callback URL, then register your application.
```

> . Create the cluster's OAuth callback URL by changing the specified variables and then running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the cluster's OAuth callback URL by changing the specified variables and running the following command:
```

> . You create the cluster's OAuth callback URL by changing the specified variables and then running the following command:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: 
s/You create the/Create the

+
[NOTE]
====

> Store this value as you need it later in this process.

Reviewer 2: Can we use below, WDYT
```suggestion
Remember to save this value; it will be required later in the process.
```

> Remember to save this value; it will be required later in the process.

Reviewer 4: It's unclear to me what "this value" is referring to, specifically.

====
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ domain=$(rosa describe cluster -c <cluster_name> | grep "DNS" | grep -oE '\S+.openshiftapps.com')

> $ echo "OAuth callback URL: https://oauth-openshift.apps.$domain/oauth2callback/AAD"

Reviewer 4: This is two commands in one code block. Can you split it into two code blocks?

----
+

> The "AAD" directory at the end of the OAuth callback URL must match the OAuth identity provider name that you setup later in this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "AAD" directory at the end of the OAuth callback URL must match the OAuth identity provider name that you will set up later in this process.
```

> The "AAD" directory at the end of the OAuth callback URL should match the OAuth identity provider name that you setup later in this process.

Reviewer 3: Should this be "must"? 
E.g., "URL should match" -> "URL must match"

. Create the Entra ID application by logging in to the Azure portal, and select the link:https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[App registrations blade]. Then, select *New registration* to create a new application.
+
image:azure-portal_app-registrations-blade.png[Azure Portal - App registrations blade]

> . Name for the application, for example `openshift-auth`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Name the application, for example `openshift-auth`.
```

> . Select *Web* from the _Redirect URI_ dropdown and enter the value of the OAuth callback URL you retrieved in the last step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Web* from the _Redirect URI_ dropdown and enter the value of the OAuth callback URL you retrieved in the previous step.
```

. After providing the required information, click *Register* to create the application.
+
image:azure-portal_register-an-application-page.png[Azure Portal - Register an application page]
+
. Select the *Certificates & secrets* sub-blade and select *New client secret*.
+
image:azure-portal_certificates-secrets-page.png[Azure Portal - Certificates and secrets page]

> . Complete the requested details and store the generated client secret value. This secret is required for later in this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the requested details and store the generated client secret value. This secret is required later in this process.
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
After initial setup, you cannot see the client secret. If you did not record the client secret, you must generate a new one.
====
+
image:azure-portal_add-a-client-secret-page.png[Azure Portal - Add a Client Secret page]

> . Select the *Overview* sub-blade and note of the `Application (client) ID` and `Directory (tenant) ID`. You need these values in a later step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Overview* sub-blade and note the `Application (client) ID` and `Directory (tenant) ID`. You will need these values in a future step.
```

+
image:azure-portal_copy-client-secret-page.png[Azure Portal - Copy Client Secret page]

[id="rosa-mobb-entra-id-configure-claims"]

> == Configure the application registration in Entra ID to include optional and group claims

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring the application registration in Entra ID to include optional and group claims
```

> To give OpenShift with enough information about the user to create their account, you configure Entra ID to give two optional claims, specifically `email` and `preferred_username`. For more information about optional claims in Entra ID, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give OpenShift enough information about the user to create their account, you configure Entra ID to give two optional claims, specifically `email` and `preferred_username`. For more information about optional claims in Entra ID, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].
```

> To give OpenShift enough information about the user to create their account, you configure Entra ID to give two optional claims, specifically `email` and `preferred_username`. For more information about optional claims in Entra ID, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].

Reviewer 4: Should "OpenShift" be {product-title}?

Also an optional suggestion for re-wording this:
```suggestion
So that {product-title} has enough information to create the user's account, you must configure Entra ID to give two optional claims: `email` and `preferred_username`. For more information about optional claims in Entra ID, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].
```

> In addition to individual user authentication, OpenShift provides group claim functionality. This functionality allows an OpenID Connect (OIDC) identity provider, such as Entra ID, to offer a user's group membership for use within OpenShift.

Reviewer 4: "OpenShift" appears enough times in this PR that I think it might be intentional, but just flagging it in case it should be `{product-title}`. Applies to the whole PR.

[discrete]
[id="rosa-mobb-entra-id-configure-optional-claims"]

> === Configure optional claims

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configuring optional claims
```

> You configure the optional claims in Entra ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the optional claims in Entra ID.
```

> Configuring the optional claims in Entra ID.

Reviewer 4: Should this be a complete sentence?

> . Click the *Token configuration* sub-blade and select the *Add optional claim* button.

Reviewer 4: Not sure if you have different rules around this, but the ISG is not a fan of "button":

> Use with caution **button** _noun_
> In general, refer to a button by its label alone. If you must specify the type of control that is being referred to, for example if other interface elements have similar labels, use a qualifier with button (for example, radio button or toolbar button). Do not use button to refer to a key on a keyboard.

+
image:azure-portal_optional-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims Page]

> . Select ID then check the `email` and `preferred_username` claims and click the *Add* button to configure them for your Entra ID application.
> +
> image:azure-portal_add-optional-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Token Type]
> image:azure-portal_add-optional-email-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - email]
> image:azure-portal_add-optional-preferred_username-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - preferred_username]

Reviewer 4: I think this should be divided up into a few steps. Possible suggestion:

```suggestion
. Select the *ID* radio button.
+
image:azure-portal_add-optional-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Token Type]

. Select the *email* claim checkbox.
+
image:azure-portal_add-optional-email-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - email]

. Select the *preferred_username* claim checkbox. Then, click *Add* to configure the *email* and *preferred_username* claims for your Entra ID application.
+
image:azure-portal_add-optional-preferred_username-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - preferred_username]
```

. A dialog box appears at the top of the page. Follow the prompt to enable the necessary Microsoft Graph permissions.
+
image:azure-portal_add-optional-claims-graph-permissions-prompt.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Graph Permissions Prompt]

[discrete]
[id="rosa-mobb-entra-id-configure-group-claims"]

> === Configure group claims (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configuring group claims (optional)
```

> You configure Entra ID to offer a groups claim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure Entra ID to offer a groups claim.
```

.Procedure

> . Select the "Add groups claim" button.

Reviewer 3: s/"Add groups claim"/*Add groups claim* 
(swap quotes to bold)

> . Select the *Add groups claim* button.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. From the *Token configuration* sub-blade, click *Add groups claim*.
```

+
image:azure-portal_optional-group-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Groups Claim Page]

> . Select the *Security groups* option and click the *Add* button to configure group claims for your Entra ID application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. To configure group claims for your Entra ID application, select *Security groups* and then click *Add*.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> In this example, you give all of the security groups that a user is a member of with the group claim. In a real production environment, you should scope the groups that the group claim offers to only those groups that are applicable to OpenShift.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion for clarity:

```suggestion
In this example, the group claim includes all of the security groups that a user is a member of. In a real production environment, ensure that the group claim only includes groups that apply to {product-title}.
```

====
+
image:azure-portal_edit-group-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Edit Groups Claim Page]

[id="cloud-experts-entra-id-idp-configure-cluster"]

> == Configure the OpenShift cluster to use Entra ID as the identity provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring the OpenShift cluster to use Entra ID as the identity provider
```

You must configure OpenShift to use Entra ID as its identity provider.

> While ROSA offers the ability to configure identity providers by using {cluster-manager}, use the ROSA CLI to configure the cluster's OAuth provider to use Entra ID as its identity provider. Before configuring the identity provider, you must set some variables that are needed for the identity provider configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While ROSA offers the ability to configure identity providers by using {cluster-manager}, use the ROSA CLI to configure the cluster's OAuth provider to use Entra ID as its identity provider. Before configuring the identity provider, set the necessary variables for the identity provider configuration.
```

.Procedure

> . Create these needed variables by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the needed variables by running the following command:
```

> While ROSA offers the ability to configure identity providers by using {cluster-manager}, use the ROSA CLI to configure the cluster's OAuth provider to use Entra ID as its identity provider. Before configuring the identity provider, set the necessary variables for the identity provider configuration.

Reviewer 4: What's the intended meaning of "while" here? There is some ambiguity in this paragraph, IMO.

ISG:

> Use with caution **while** _conjunction_
> Use while only to refer to a period of time. To avoid potential ambiguity, do not use the term as a synonym for although or though in documentation.

> . Create the needed variables by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: I'd remove "needed"

$ CLIENT_SECRET=xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx <4>
$ TENANT_ID=zzzzzzzz-zzzz-zzzz-zzzz-zzzzzzzzzzzz <5>
----
+
--
<1> Replace this with the name of your ROSA cluster.

> <2> Replace this with the name you used in the OAuth callback URL that generated earlier in this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Replace this with the name you used in the OAuth callback URL that you generated earlier in this process.
```

<3> Replace this with the Application (client) ID.
<4> Replace this with the Client Secret.
<5> Replace this with the Directory (tenant) ID.

> --

Reviewer 4: s/Replace this with/Replace this value with

> . Configure the cluster's OAuth provider by running the following commands depending on if you opted to enable group claims or not.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Configure the cluster's OAuth provider by running the following command. If you enabled group claims, ensure that you use the `--groups-claims groups` argument.
```

> .. If you opted to enable group claims, run the following command:

Reviewer 4: Nit: I think instead of a/b, these should be bullet points. 

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#handling-nonsequential-actions

Another, smaller nit:

s/opted to enable/enabled
s/did not opt to enable/did not enable

--groups-claims groups
----

> .. If you did not opt to enable group claims,  run the following command:

Reviewer 3: Double space between "claims, run"

----

[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-grant-permissions"]

> == Grant additional permissions to individual users and groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Granting additional permissions to individual users and groups
```

> After a few minutes, the cluster authentication Operator reconciles your changes, and you can log in to the cluster by using Entra ID.

Reviewer 4: Should this sentence go before the "Granting additional permissions..." heading? It seems like it is the result of the previous procedure.

> On your first log in, you might notice that you have very limited permissions. By default, OpenShift only grants you the ability to create new projects, or namespaces, in the cluster. Other projects are restricted from view.

Reviewer 4: s/On your first log in/When you first log in

You must grant these additional abilities to individual users and groups.

[discrete]
[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-grant-permissions-users"]

> === Grant additional permissions to individual users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Granting additional permissions to individual users
```

OpenShift includes a significant number of preconfigured roles, including the `cluster-admin` role that grants full access and control over the cluster.

.Procedure

> * Grant your user access to the `cluster-admin` role by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Grant a user access to the `cluster-admin` role by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa grant user cluster-admin \
    --user=<USERNAME> <1>
    --cluster=${CLUSTER_NAME}
----
+
--

> <1> Provide your Entra ID username that you want to have cluster admin permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Provide the Entra ID username that you want to have cluster admin permissions.
```

--

[discrete]
[id="cloud-experts-entra-id-idp-additional-permissions-groups"]

> === Grant additional permissions to individual groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Granting additional permissions to individual groups
```

If you opted to enable group claims, the cluster OAuth provider automatically creates or updates the user's group memberships by using the group ID. The cluster OAuth provider does not automatically create `RoleBindings` and `ClusterRoleBindings` for the groups that are created; you are responsible for creating those bindings by using your own processes.

To grant an automatically generated group access to the `cluster-admin` role, you must create a `ClusterRoleBinding` to the group ID.

.Procedure
* Create the `ClusterRoleBinding` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-group \
--clusterrole=cluster-admin \
--group=<GROUP_ID> <1>
----
+
--

> <1> Provide your Entra ID group ID that you want to have cluster admin permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Provide the Entra ID group ID that you want to have cluster admin permissions.
```

--
+

> Now, any user in the specified group automatically receive `cluster-admin` access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, any user in the specified group automatically receives `cluster-admin` access.
```

> [id="cloud-experts-entra-id-idp-additional-resources"]

Reviewer 4: This is missing the `[role="_additional-resources"]` line
